# CPU-Scheduling-Simulator
This is A CPU Scheduling Algorithms Simulator In Java
Different CPU Scheduling algorithms have different and unique properties but choosing which algorithm to use in a particular situation depends on the various 
characteristics that are used for comparison in determining which scheduling algorithm is judged to be best. These characteristics are referred to as CPU scheduling criteria. In some situations, it may be desirable that response time should be maximized with little attention to the throughput or it may be desirable to have the least possible average waiting time with little to no attention to response time or the balance between all these characteristics may be required. In all these situations how do you determine which scheduling algorithm is best for a particular situation? providing the solution to this problem is the goal of our project.
CPU Scheduling Simulator will be able to provide an environment in which the user could experimentally test the performance of each algorithm by simulation. At the start of the program, user is allowed to select any CPU scheduling algorithm they want to simulate the performance of. Next, the user is required to provide the number of processes and the associated information with each process such as CPU burst, process id, priority (in case priority scheduling policy is selected), arrival time, and so on. The user is then able to see the execution of processes along with the remaining wait/burst time as well as the processes waiting in the ready queue. One important aspect of the project is that the application is Graphical User Interface based, hence, it will be easy and convenient to use.

Video Link of project demonstration: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rf6Ec8PjOyg

